Lara as/counter tutorial (#584)
dfinity/docs: modules/developers-guide/pages/tutorials/counter-tutorial.adoc

The program uses the `+currentValue+` variable to contain a natural number that represents the current value of the counter.
This program supports the following function calls:

* The `+increment+` function call updates the current value, incrementing it by 1 (no return value).
* The `+get+` function call queries and returns the current value of the counter.
* The `+set+` function call updates the current value to an arbitrary numeric value you specify as an argument.

This tutorial provides a simple example of how you can increment a counter by calling functions on a deployed canister smart contract.
By calling the functions to increment and query the counter value multiple times, you can verify that the variable state—that is, the value of the variable between calls—persists.

== Before you begin

Before starting the tutorial, verify the following:

* You have downloaded and installed the {sdk-short-name} package as described in link:../../quickstart/local-quickstart{outfilesuffix}#download-and-install[Download and install].

> * You have stopped any local {IC} blockchain processes running on the computer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You have stopped any local canister execution environments running on the computer.
```

* You can see that the `+currentValue+` variable declaration in this example includes the `+stable+` keyword to indicate the state—the value that can be set, incremented, and retrieved—persists.
+
This keyword ensures that the value for the variable is unchanged when the program is upgraded. 
* The declaration for the `+currentValue+` variable also specifies that its type is a natural number (`+Nat+`).
* The program includes two public update methods—the `+increment+` and `+set+` functions—and one a query method-the `+get+` function.
--
+
For more information about stable and flexible variables, see link:../../language-guide/upgrades{outfilesuffix}[Stable variables and upgrade methods] in the link:../../language-guide/motoko{outfilesuffix}[_{proglang} Programming Language Guide_].
+
For more information about the differences between a query and an update, see link:../concepts/canisters-code{outfilesuffix}#query-update[Query and update methods] in link:../concepts/canisters-code{outfilesuffix}#canister-state[Canisters include both program and state].
. Save your changes and close the file to continue.

> == Start the local {IC} blockchain

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Start the local canister execution environment
```

> Before you can build the `+my_counter+` project, you need to either connect to a local {IC} blockchain, running in your development environment, or to the {IC} blockchain mainnet. 

Reviewer: Please adapt accordingly.

Author: I suggested something and will thus close this as resolved.

> Starting the {IC} blockchain locally requires a `+dfx.json+` file, so you should be sure you are in your project's root directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting the local canister execution environment requires a `+dfx.json+` file, so you should be sure you are in your project's root directory.
```

For this tutorial, you should have two separate terminal shells, so that you can start and see network operations in one terminal and manage your project in another.

> To start the local {IC} blockchain:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To start the local canister execution environment:
```

* You should now have **two terminals** open.
* You should have the **project directory** as your **current working directory**.
--

> . Start the local {IC} blockchain on your computer by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Start the local canister execution environment on your computer by running the following command:
```

+
[source,bash]
----
dfx start
----
+

> After you start the local {IC} blockchain, the terminal displays messages about network operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you start the local canister execution environment, the terminal displays messages about network operations.
```

. Leave the terminal that displays network operations open and switch your focus to your original terminal where you created your new project.

== Register, build, and deploy the dapp

> After you connect to the local {IC} blockchain running in your development environment, you can register, build, and deploy your dapp locally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you connect to the local canister execution environment running in your development environment, you can register, build, and deploy your dapp locally.
```

dfx canister call my_counter get
----
+
This returns the updated value of the `+currentValue+` to be 987.
Running the additional commands
+
[source,bash]
----
dfx canister call my_counter increment
dfx canister call my_counter get
----
+
returns the incremented `+currentValue+` of 988.

include::example$candid-ui.adoc[]
+
image:candid-counter.png[Counter functions]

> == Stop the local {IC} blockchain

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Stop the local canister execution environment
```

> After you finish experimenting with your dapp, you can stop the local {IC} blockchain so that it doesn’t continue running in the background.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you finish experimenting with your dapp, you can stop the local canister execution environment so that it doesn’t continue running in the background.
```

> To stop the local {IC} blockchain:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To stop the local canister execution environment:
```

> . In the terminal that displays network operations, press Control-C to interrupt the local {IC} blockchain process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the terminal that displays network operations, press Control-C to interrupt the local canister execution environment.
```

> . Stop the local {IC} blockchain by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Stop the local canister execution environment by running the following command:
```
